
\chapter{Frequently asked Questions}

\section*{How easy is it to hack into my programs?}

Well, first of all: it is possible. The basic source files (.bas) are of course
readable by any text editor and such modifiable. The bytecode compiled code (.b)
is already harder to read and nearly impossible to convert back into source
code. However, since X11-basic is open source, everybody who wants to can look
into the sourcecode and can read all information necessary to decode the
bytecode and also modify it. It's possible but a real big job to do. On the level
of bytecode translated to C source also here someone could modify it. Once the
bytecode is compiled into real machine language, the code is as safe from
hackers as any other code is (means that there is nearly no way back). 

Even if you incorporate the bytecode into the virtual machine, your program
should be safe from snoopers, they might not even know your program is byte-code
generated. You can also instruct the bytecode compiler not to attach any symbol
table or extra debugging information.


\section*{Do I need a license to distribute my programs?}

No. You don't need a license to use X11-Basic (it's free), and you definitely
don't need any license to distribute or sell your programs. The only agreement
you have to worry about is that if you choose to use X11-Basic, you assume any
and all consequences, direct or indirectly from the use of X11-Basic. Which
means: don't blame me if it doesn't work as you think it should. X11-Basic can
be used for any task, whether it's profit-seeking or otherwise. I do not want to
know, and you don't pay me a cent. You don't even have to acknowledge that your
program was created with X11-Basic (although this would be a nice gesture).
You're allowed to bundle X11-Basic along with your program(s), as long as the
user is well informed that it's not buying into X11-Basic, but rather, buying
into your program. How is that done? By not even advertising that your
distribution includes a copy of X11-Basic. However, if you want to distribute or
modify X11-Basic itself, or if you want to incorporate parts of the X11-Basic 
sourcecode, you will need to follow the GNU public license. 

\section*{Recently asked question}

\begin{verbatim}
  Q: I downloaded the last update to x11-basic but I have a problem 
     with the UTF-8 character set... I cannot use no more the 
     ascii set the graphic part of it ...I made a small game that 
     use them now it is not working no more...there's a way 
     to fix this problem?
  A: Yes, there is. All characters are still there, but you cannot 
     access them with a simple CHR$(). One method is to 
     copy the characters from a unicode table like this: 
     [http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicodeblock\_Rahmenzeichnung Frames] 
     with the mouse into the editor. 
     You need to use a UTF-8 capable editor, e.g. pico, nano, gedit.
     If this is not working for you, alternatively you can code the 
     character yourself by the unicode number:
\end{verbatim}

  {\footnotesize\begin{verbatim}
     FUNCTION utf8$(unicode%)
       IF unicode%<0x80
         RETURN CHR$(unicode%)
       ELSE IF unicode%<0x2000
         RETURN CHR$(0xc0+(unicode%/64 AND 0x1f))+CHR$(0x80+(unicode% AND 0x3f))
       ELSE
         RETURN CHR$(0xe0+(unicode%/64/64 AND 0xf))+CHR$(0x80+(unicode%/64 AND 0x3f))+CHR$(0x80+(unicode% AND 0x3f))  
       ENDIF
     ENDFUNCTION
 \end{verbatim} }

     So e.g. the charackter 0x250C can be coded with \verb|@utf8$(0x250C)|.


\begin{verbatim}
 Q: Is there a GUI-Designer for the graphical user unterface functions 
    of X11Basic ?
 A: Well, so far nobody has made a real efford to write a real graphical 
    GUI\_designer. But the program gui2bas may help creating GUI forms. 
    The input is a very siple ASCII-File (*.gui) which defines the interface. 
    So far many GEM object types are supportet (and even Atart ST *.rsc-files 
    may be converted to *.gui files with the rsc2gui program.) but support for 
    listboxes, popup-menues and Tooltips may be included in future.
\end{verbatim}


\begin{verbatim}
 Q: My old ANSI Basic Programs (with line-Numbers) produce lots of errors in 
    the interpreter. How can I run classic (ANSI) Basic programs?
 A: Classic Basic programs have to be converted before they can be run with 
    X11-Basic. With the bas2x11basic converter program most of this convertion
    will be done automatically. 
\end{verbatim}


